# E-Commerce Customer Churn Prediction

This repository contains a machine learning project that aims to give solutions to an E-Commerce Company that currently experiencing a high customer churn rate. The project uses various machine learning techniques and algorithms in order to solve the current issue and to gain insights for business decision.

## Table of Contents

- [Business Problem Understanding](#business-problem-understanding)
- [Dataset](#dataset)
- [Model Brief Description](#model)

<a name="business-problem-understanding"></a>
## Business Problem Understanding
An E-Commerce company called WarungOnline is selling daily necessities as their business activities. WarungOnline is a stable E-commerce, B2C, company that was founded 10 years ago. At some point, the company is experiencing a fairly high churn rate, around 16.5% of the total customers compared to the usual churn rate for B2C company which around 6.77%, can be seen [here](https://recurly.com/research/churn-rate-benchmarks/). The high churn rate could bring negative effect to the company revenue as a high churn rate is commonly followed by a decrease in the revenue.

The company at that time is offering little to no promotions to the customers when the annual churn rate is stable, around 5-8%. However, after having a high churn rate at some event, the company is planning to build a machine learning model to predict a customer who is going to churn so the company will approach them with special treatments such as giving discount and promos.

The reason why the company should build a machine learning model to predict customer churn is because of the cost of acquiring new customers is 5 times higher than the cost of retaining existing customers, can be seen [here](https://www.optimove.com/resources/learning-center/customer-acquisition-vs-retention-costs). By predicting the customers who are going to churn, the company will be able to approach those customers with special treatments which could increase the possibility of those customers to not churn. 

<a name="dataset"></a>
## Dataset
The data set belongs to a leading E-commerce company called WarungOnline. It contains informations about customers, it's attributes, and whether the customers are going to churn or not. One row is representing one single customer.

Features Description:

| Attribute | Data type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Tenure | Float | Tenure of a customer in the company |
| WarehouseToHome | Float | Distance between the warehouse to the customer's home |
| NumberOfDeviceRegistered | Int | Total number of deceives is registered on a particular customer |
| PreferedOrderCat | String | Prefered order category of a customer in the last month |
| SatisfactionScore | Int | Satisfactory score of a customer in the last month |
| MaritalStatus | String | Marital status of a customer |
| NumberOfAddress | Int | Total number of added on a particular customer |
| Complaint | Int | Any complaint has been raised in the last month |
| DaySinceLastOrder | Float | Day since last order by customer |
| CashbackAmount | Float | Average cashback in last month |
| Churn | Int | Churn or Not Churn |

<a name="model"></a>
## Model Brief Description
The model that is used in this project is StackingClassifier algorithm with LogisticRegression, KNNClassifier, and DecisionTreeClassifier. The metrics that is used to measure the score of the model is f2 score. The model is trained using 80% of the total data set, which then will predict the rest 20% of the dataset to test the performance of the trained model. Here is a brief description about StackingClassifier Algorithm:

Stacking is an ensemble learning technique in machine learning where multiple models, called base models, are combined together to make predictions. The predictions of these base models are then used as inputs to another model, called a meta-learner, which makes the final prediction.
1. Base Models: Several different base models are trained on the same dataset. These base models can be any type of classifiers, such as decision trees, knn, and logistic regression. Each base model learns to make predictions based on the input features.

2. Base Model Predictions: After training, the base models are used to make predictions on the same dataset. Each base model produces its own set of predictions for the input samples.

3. Meta-Model: A meta-model or meta-learner is trained using the predictions generated by the base models as input features. The meta-model learns to combine or aggregate these predictions to make the final prediction. The meta-model can be any classifier, which the default classifier is logistic regression.
